# Data-Mining

The dataset to be explored in this project is the Gowalla dataset, found at the [source](https://snap.stanford.edu/data/loc-Gowalla.html).
Gowalla is a location-based social networking website where users have a friendship network built and they can share their location with said network by checking-in. The friendship network is represented by an undirected graph, consisting of 196,591 nodes and 950,327 edges. Each user represents a node, an edge between two users is a relationship. To supplement this, another file is provided with time and location information of check-ins made by users. In total, 6,442,890 check-ins were made by users between a almost 2 year period between Feb 2009 - Oct 2010.

The track that we are going to use for this project is Track A: Standard Analysis Project.

// Data cleaning <br>
Before applying any algorithms the validity of the data must be checked. For further analysis it might be useful to know if the frienship graph is connected \ find the connected subgraphs. Secondly, a map of the coordinates can be created. Firstly with this it easy to see some outlier check ins. Secondly, we'd see how large the area of observation is. If it is large enough it might be a good idea to find observation clusters, and in that way we can avoid accounting for the "looping" of coordinates. Furthermore, in order to catch some nonsense data a couple of things can be done: 1. for same location IDs check if the coordiantes are similar; 2. For same person check ins that are near in time does it seem that seem like they teleported.
 
// Task Description <br>
In the context of clustering, some of the main tasks on this dataset would be hirearchical and subspace clustering of user check-in locations. The goal is to provide an analysis on spatial behaviour at multiple scales, for example multiple clusters could represent a street, a neighbourhood, or a city, thus patterns of behaviour can be analysed relative to different granularities. Based on these scales behaviours can be compared as well, most importantly if different users or communities are similar in distinct subspaces. 
Another point would be hirearchical friend groups, friend groups on different scales would represent one-off mettings, distant friends to close friends and family. With this information inference of relationships could also be accomplished, the frequency of 2 people checking in at the same time might suggest a friendship connection which can be checked against the existing friendship network. Using the same train of thought, the model could even suggest possible friendhips if 2 people meeting frequently or occasionally are not already friends according to the graph.

A second focus point would be community detection and sequence segmentation and similarities. The goal is to identify groups of users that are densely connected and analyse if there are mobility patterns based on check in locations. In this case, user check ins are treated as temporal movement sequences, thus patterns and routines can be identified. Multiple interesting questions can thus be explored, such as if the behaviour similarity is based on movement sequence rather than relation and which are the most common routes, or is it the opposite, do relationships influence movement more than routine.

Lastly, a potential focus could be location labeling based on visiting frequency and time, for example, a place that is visited very often by a single person can be labeled as a home location. On the other hand, a place that is primarily visited in the evening by groups of friends might be labeled as night-leisure location. 
